In an article by MedlinePlus-associated with the National Library of Medicine-some problems people experiencing homelessness face include: "problems getting enough food, unsanitary living conditions, and exposure to severe weather" (MedlinePlus). These problems are a result of not having easy access to resources and information to access basic necessities which would increase quality of life. A possible albeit elementary solution would be to create an app which gives easy access to information to basic necessities around the city of Seattle. Data from an article by the Journal of Social Distress and the Homeless states "the vast majority (94%) [of homeless adults] currently owned a cell phone... more than half currently owned a smartphone". By creating an app that stores necessary information locally on the device, people using the app could access the information they need with little to no internet/cellular service access required.

A thesis by Nava titled "Hygiene is a human right: Access to hygiene facilities in unsheltered individuals and its effects on health" explores the link between hygiene accessibility and health outcomes among unsheltered individuals. This was a test on 30 people in Tucson, AZ. Access to water was the biggest barrier to improving their hygiene. 77% said they had to use public restrooms as their main source of water and cleaning. Some stats on health issues, 37% reported experiencing urinary tract infections (UTIs), 30% reported yeast infections, 63% experienced rashes, and 57% experienced diarrhea. Women had a higher rate of UTIs. Many did not reach out for medical help due to negative experiences, lack of transport, and lack of knowledge on the locations. The point this paper is driving is the need for more restrooms and knowledge to find these restrooms and resources for unsheltered people.

In an informal interview with Eva's friend, [redacted for privacy purposes], they had experienced homelessness in the past. They recounted a lot of difficulties with finding a home due to restrictions in shelters and being unable to rely on couch surfing for stable housing. Depression and the feeling of hopelessness had made it difficult to find what they need especially since they were forced to focus on survival and the current day first and foremost which left little time to find reliable places to take care of their hygiene. They said they had the most trouble finding a place to shower. Especially since most places discriminated against them for experiencing homelessness and kicked them out.

Sources:
Eva's friend, thank you. <br/>

“Homelessness and Health.” MedlinePlus, U.S. National Library of Medicine, medlineplus.gov/homelessnessandhealth.html. Accessed 22 May 2024. <br/>

Rhoades, Harmony, et al. “No digital divide? technology use among homeless adults.” Journal of Social Distress and the Homeless, vol. 26, no. 1, 2 Jan. 2017, pp. 73–77, https://doi.org/10.1080/10530789.2017.1305140. <br/>

Nava, Bianca Elise (2023). Hygiene is a human right: Access to hygiene facilities in unsheltered individuals and its effects on health (Bachelor's thesis). University of Arizona, Tucson, USA. http://hdl.handle.net/10150/668676 <br/>

​​HYGIENE IS A HUMAN RIGHT: ACCESS TO HYGIENE FACILITIES IN UNSHELTERED INDIVIDUALS AND ITS EFFECTS ON HEALTH, https://repository.arizona.edu/handle/10150/668676